## Wake-on-motion detection and data logging application
Work in progress....

**[Sasquatch](https://www.tindie.com/products/tleracorp/sasquatch-stm32wb5mmg-development-board/)** is an ultra-low-power, BLE-enabled development board with an STM32WB5MMG module (STM32WB55) MCU host, an ST LIS2DW12 3-axis accelerometer and a 16-MByte Macronix MX25L12835FZNI QSPI flash memory. It is the minimal setup for practical wake-on-motion detection and data logging applications. These include monitoring a door for entry/exit events, monitoring infrequently-moved equipment at a job site, earthquake detection and, more commonly, package state monitoring during shipment.

In the latter case, purchasers of high-value products (and their insurance companies) want to know if their package in transit has 
seen extreme of temperature, has been dropped or tipped over during handling, or generally suffered an event resulting in damage. The data desired includes a record of the package temperature, the inertial forces acting on the package during the event, and a time/date stamp. Sasquatch can provide these data (and other data if additional sensors are added), and this is a minimally useful data set to offer a practical, battery-powered application that can cover a year or longer monitoring time.

The heart of such an application is the LIS2DW12 3-axis accelerometer. In the Sasquatch device, the wake-on-motion and sleep-on-no-motion interrupt is set up to wake the MCU from one of two ultra-low-power states, either STOP or STANDBY. In STOP, the RTC and all SRAM remains active (state-preserving) and the device rapidly goes back to the RUN state on any interrupt, including the RTC Alarm interrupt. In STANDBY, the RTC and only 32 kBytes of SRAM remain active (partially state preserving) and the device takes a bit longer to return to the RUN state. The details can be found in the STM32WB55 data sheet. In practice, STANDBY uses ~1.5 uA less power than STOP, so for applications with very low duty cycles like a motion-detect data logger, STANDBY should result in lower average current usage.

If we only wanted to wake the MCU on any motion and nothing else, we would run the LIS2DW12 at the lowest sample rate (1.6 Hz in stationary mode) and lowest power mode (power mode 1 with 12-bit data). The sensor runs continuously in this configuration at ~0.4 uA sending interrupts to wake the MCI on any motion above a programmable threshold and to allow the MCU to go back to sleep on detection of no motion for a programmable time period. However, for a motion detect data logger application, we are interested in more than this.

The LIS2DW12 has an embedded 32-sample (3-axes of acceleration x 32 = 92 int16_t words of raw data = 192 bytes in total maximum) FIFO (first in, first out) memory that can store data continuously at the sample rate where the watermark fill level (0 - 31) is programmable and can be triggered by interrupt. That is, when a wake-on-motion interrupt occurs, the FIFO operation mode is changed from continuous to "FIFO" (CONT-TO-FIFO) mode where data is collected until the FIFO is full (programmable watermark is reached, *i.e.*, 32 samples). This allows the state of motion just at the wake event and after to be captured for data logging onto the QSPI flash memory along with a time/date stamp, the battery voltage, and the MCU (and/or LIS2DW12) temperature. 

In these examples, we have chosen the full-scale range to be 2 g, the sample rate to be 12.5 Hz, and lowest power mode (power mode 1), which allows ~2.6 seconds of 12-bit accel data to be collected for each wake event whenever the threshold exceeds 62.5 mg. The resultant ~1 mg resolution, narrow range, and slow data rate is good enough to capture human-scale motions, but can be adjusted for more demanding motion capture at the cost of extra power usage. The time delay before sleep is allowed to resume is as small as possible at this data rate, 1.28 sec. The reason for using both a wake-on-motion and a sleep-on-no-motion interrupt is so the FIFO behavior can be controlled; it has to be cleared (put in BYPASS mode) after the FIFO is read upon an LIS2DW12 wake event and the MCU is logging data. Then after the no motion activity time out, the FIFO has to be returned to CONT-TO-FIFO mode to allow the next wake event to be captured. We also disable the wake-on-motion interruptvonce a wake event is triggered and then re-enable once the sleep-on-no-motion interrupt is triggered to avoid multiple wake-on-motion interrupts for the same wake event. All this fussing allows each motion event to be captured cleanly, minimizes the time the MCU is awake and logging data, and results in the lowest average power usage we can manage.
